# 学术文献记录

**标题**：K12 Blended Learning in China of "Education+" Era: From the Perspective of Ecology

**DOI**：10.1007/978-981-97-4442-8_13

**作者**：Mengying Han, Yushun Li, Jon-Chao Hong

**期刊/来源**：Blended Learning. Intelligent Computing in Education (Springer), 2024

**来源URL**：https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-97-4442-8_13

**中文搜索词**：电化教育研究 人工智能 K12

**英文摘要**：
In the process of digital transformation of education, blended learning is an important approach to promote the deepening of curriculum and teaching reform in basic education. However, K12 blended learning has developed more slowly than higher education. In the past 10 years, the informatization of education has shifted from "Internet+" to "Education+". It's necessary to clarify the development pattern of K12 blended learning in this era and build a resilient blended learning ecology. In this study, 362 articles on K12 blended learning (2012–2022) were analyzed on the platform of the China Knowledge Network. Findings show that K12 blended learning went through three periods of development: inception, integration and application, and integration and innovation. The learning goals of blended learning have progressively returned to the essence of teaching, the boundaries between subject areas have been dissolved, the flexibility of the organization of teaching components (e.g., environments, resources, activities) has been enhanced, and the issues of core competencies, assessment of teaching and learning, big data, and artificial intelligence issues have become increasingly important in the future. In conclusion, this study analyses the ecological development of K12 blended learning from the macro, meso, and micro perspectives. It suggests that emphasis should be placed on optimizing the external environment, deepening synergistic connectivity, and strengthening the vitality of transformation to support the digital transformation of education for high-quality development.
